1 Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whoever is deceived by it is not wise. 
2 The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoever provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul. 
3 It is an honor for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling. 
4 The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing. 
5 Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out. 
6 Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find? 
7 The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him. 
8 A king that sitteth on the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes. 
9 Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin? 
10 Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike abomination to the LORD. 
11 Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work is pure, and whether it is right. 
12 The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even both of them. 
13 Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thy eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread. 
14 It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone, then he boasteth. 
15 There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel. 
16 Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman. 
17 Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel. 
18 Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war. 
19 He that goeth about as a tale-bearer revealeth secrets; therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips. 
20 Whoever curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness. 
21 An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end of it shall not be blessed. 
22 Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and he shall save thee. 
23 Divers weights are an abomination to the LORD; and a false balance is not good. 
24 Man's goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way? 
25 It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make inquiry. 
26 A wise king scatterreth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them. 
27 The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly. 
28 Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upheld by mercy. 
29 The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the gray head. 
30 The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the inward parts of the belly. 
