1 Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. 
2 He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. 
3 And dost thou open thy eyes upon such one, and bring me into judgment with thee? 
4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one. 
5 Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months is with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; 
6 Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day. 
7 For there is hope of a tree, if it is cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its tender branch will not cease. 
8 Though its root shall become old in the earth, and its stock die in the ground; 
9 Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant. 
10 But man dieth, and wasteth away: yes, man yieldeth his breath, and where is he? 
11 As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up: 
12 So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens shall be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. 
13 O that thou wouldst hide me in the grave, that thou wouldst keep me secret, until thy wrath is past, that thou wouldst appoint me a set time, and remember me! 
14 If a man dieth, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change shall come. 
15 Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thy hands. 
16 For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin? 
17 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up my iniquity. 
18 And surely the mountain falling cometh to naught, and the rock is removed out of its place. 
19 The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man. 
20 Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. 
21 His sons come to honor, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them. 
22 But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn. 
