1 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the LORD. 
2 And the LORD said to Satan, Whence comest thou? and Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down upon it. 
3 And the LORD said to Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and shunneth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause. 
4 And Satan answered the LORD, and said, Skin for skin, even, all that a man hath will he give for his life. 
5 But put forth thy hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. 
6 And the LORD said to Satan, Behold, he is in thy hand; but save his life. 
7 So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot to his crown. 
8 And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself with it; and he sat down among the ashes. 
9 Then said his wife to him, Dost thou still retain thy integrity? curse God, and die. 
10 But he said to her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips. 
11 Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that had come upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite; for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him, and to comfort him. 
12 And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they raised their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads towards heaven. 
13 So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spoke a word to him: for they saw that his grief was very great. 
