1 After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed his day. 
2 And Job spoke, and said, 
3 Let the day perish in which I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a mail child conceived. 
4 Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. 
5 Let darkness and the shades of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it. 
6 As for that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined to the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months. 
7 Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein. 
8 Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up their mourning. 
9 Let the stars of its twilight be dark; let it look for light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the day: 
10 Because it prevented not my birth, nor hid sorrow from my eyes. 
11 Why died I not from the womb? why did I not expire at the time of my birth? 
12 Why did the knees receive me? or why the breasts that I should be nursed? 
13 For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest, 
14 With kings and counselors of the earth, who built desolate places for themselves; 
15 Or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver: 
16 Or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants which never saw light. 
17 There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the weary are at rest. 
18 There the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor. 
19 The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his master. 
20 Why is light given to him that is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul; 
21 Who long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures; 
22 Who rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave? 
23 Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in? 
24 For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters. 
25 For the thing which I greatly feared hath come upon me, and that which I dreaded hath come to me. 
26 I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came. 
