1 To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David. O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known me. 
2 Thou knowest my down-sitting and my up rising, thou understandest my thought afar off. 
3 Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. 
4 For there is not a word on my tongue, but lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether. 
5 Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me. 
6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain to it. 
7 Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? 
8 If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. 
9 If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; 
10 Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. 
11 If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. 
12 Yes, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee. 
13 For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. 
14 I will praise thee: for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: wonderful are thy works; and that my soul well knoweth. 
15 My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously formed in the lowest parts of the earth. 
16 Thy eyes saw my substance, yet being imperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. 
17 How precious also are thy thoughts to me, O God! how great is the sum of them! 
18 If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee. 
19 Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men. 
20 For they speak against thee wickedly, and thy enemies take thy name in vain. 
21 Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? 
22 I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them my enemies. 
23 Search me, O God, and know my heart; try me, and know my thoughts: 
24 And see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. 
