1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 Speak to Aaron, and say to him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light over against the candlestick. 
3 And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps of it over against the candlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses. 
4 And this work of the candlestick was of beaten gold, to its shaft, to the flowers of it, was beaten work: according to the pattern which the LORD had showed Moses, so he made the candlestick. 
5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
6 Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them. 
7 And thus shalt thou do to them, to cleanse them: Sprinkle water of purifying upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and let them wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean. 
8 Then let them take a young bullock with his meat-offering, even fine flour mingled with oil, and another young bullock shalt thou take for a sin-offering. 
9 And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt convene the whole assembly of the children of Israel: 
10 And thou shalt bring the Levites before the LORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the Levites: 
11 And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for an offering of the children of Israel, that they may execute the service of the LORD. 
12 And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bullocks: and thou shalt offer the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering, to the LORD, to make an atonement for the Levites. 
13 And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them for an offering to the LORD. 
14 Thus shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children of Israel: and the Levites shall be mine. 
15 And after that shall the Levites go in to perform the service of the tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt cleanse them, and offer them for an offering. 
16 For they are wholly given to me from among the children of Israel; instead of such as open every womb, even instead of the first-born of all the children of Israel, have I taken them to me. 
17 For all the first born of the children of Israel are mine, both man and beast: on the day that I smote every first-born in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for myself. 
18 And I have taken the Levites for all the first-born of the children of Israel. 
19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the tabernacle of the congregation, and to make an atonement for the children of Israel: that there may be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come nigh to the sanctuary. 
20 And Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel, did to the Levites according to all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel to them. 
21 And the Levites were purified, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them as an offering before the LORD; and Aaron made an atonement for them to cleanse them. 
22 And after that went the Levites in to perform their service in the tabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and before his sons: as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they to them. 
23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
24 This is it that belongeth to the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upward they shall go in to wait upon the service of the tabernacle of the congregation: 
25 And from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting upon the service of it, and shall serve no more: 
26 But shall minister with their brethren in the tabernacle of the congregation, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shalt thou do to the Levites concerning their charge. 
