1 Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month; and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there. 
2 And there was no water for the congregation: and they assembled themselves against Moses and against Aaron. 
3 And the people chid with Moses, and spoke, saying, O that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD! 
4 And why have ye brought the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there? 
5 And why have ye conducted us from Egypt, to bring us to this evil place? it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink. 
6 And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces: and the glory of the LORD appeared to them. 
7 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
8 Take the rod, and convene thou the assembly, thou, and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye to the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth its water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so thou shalt give drink to the congregation and their beasts. 
9 And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him. 
10 And Moses and Aaron assembled the congregation before the rock, and he said to them, Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock? 
11 And Moses lifted his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also. 
12 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them. 
13 This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with the LORD, and he was sanctified in them. 
14 And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hath befallen us: 
15 How our fathers went down into Egypt, and we have dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians afflicted us, and our fathers: 
16 And when we cried to the LORD, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and hath brought us forth from Egypt: and behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy border: 
17 Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country: we will not pass through the fields, or through the vineyards, neither will we drink of the water of the wells: we will go by the king's high-way, we will not turn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thy borders. 
18 And Edom said to him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I come out against thee with the sword. 
19 And the children of Israel said to him, We will go by the highway: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay for it: I will only, without doing any thing else, go through on my feet. 
20 And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out against him with many people, and with a strong hand. 
21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel turned away from him. 
22 And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came to mount Hor. 
23 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying, 
24 Aaron shall be gathered to his people: for he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word at the water of Meribah. 
25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up to mount Hor: 
26 And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be gathered to his people, and shall die there. 
27 And Moses did as the LORD commanded: and they ascended mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation. 
28 And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there on the top of the mount: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mount. 
29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they mourned for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel. 
