1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye shall have come into the land of your habitations, which I give to you, 
3 And will make an offering by fire to the LORD, a burnt-offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a free-will-offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savor to the LORD, of the herd, or of the flock: 
4 Then shall he that offereth his offering to the LORD bring a meat-offering of a tenth part of flour mingled with the fourth part of a hin of oil. 
5 And the fourth part of a hin of wine for a drink-offering shalt thou prepare with the burnt-offering or sacrifice, for one lamb. 
6 Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat-offering two tenth parts of flour mingled with the third part of a hin of oil. 
7 And for a drink-offering thou shalt offer the third part of a hin of wine, for a sweet savor to the LORD. 
8 And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt-offering, or for a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace-offerings to the LORD: 
9 Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat-offering of three tenth parts of flour mingled with half a hin of oil. 
10 And thou shalt bring for a drink-offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD: 
11 Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid. 
12 According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number. 
13 All that are born in the country shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD. 
14 And if a stranger shall sojourn with you, or whoever shall be among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do. 
15 One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD. 
16 One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you. 
17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
18 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you, 
19 Then it shall be, that when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up a heave-offering to the LORD. 
20 Ye shall offer a cake of the first of your dough for a heave-offering: as ye do the heave-offering of the threshing-floor, so shall ye heave it. 
21 Of the first of your dough ye shall give to the LORD a heave-offering in your generations. 
22 And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments which the LORD hath spoken to Moses, 
23 Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations; 
24 Then it shall be, if aught shall be committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt-offering, for a sweet savor to the LORD, with his meat-offering, and his drink-offering, according to the manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin-offering. 
25 And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD, and their sin-offering before the LORD, for their ignorance: 
26 And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were in ignorance. 
27 And if any soul shall sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she-goat of the first year for a sin-offering. 
28 And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him. 
29 Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them. 
30 But the soul that doeth aught presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
31 Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him. 
32 And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath-day. 
33 And they that found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation. 
34 And they put him in custody, because it was not declared what should be done to him. 
35 And the LORD said to Moses, The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp. 
36 And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
37 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
38 Speak to the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes on the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribin of blue: 
39 And it shall be to you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go astray: 
40 That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God. 
41 I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God. 
