1 And Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman whom he had married: for he had married a Cushite woman. 
2 And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoke only by Moses? hath he not spoke also by us? And the LORD heard it. 
3 (Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men who were upon the face of the earth.) 
4 And the LORD spoke suddenly to Moses, and to Aaron, and to Miriam, Come out ye three to the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out. 
5 And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth. 
6 And he said, Hear now my words: If there is a prophet among you, I the LORD will make myself known to him in a vision, and will speak to him in a dream. 
7 My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house. 
8 With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold: why then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? 
9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he departed. 
10 And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam, and behold, she was leprous. 
11 And Aaron said to Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay not the sin upon us, in which we have done foolishly, and in which we have sinned. 
12 Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed at the time of his birth. 
13 And Moses cried to the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee. 
14 And the LORD said to Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out from the camp seven days, and after that let her be received again. 
15 And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again. 
16 And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and encamped in the wilderness of Paran. 
