1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 Command the children of Israel, and say to them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savor to me, shall ye observe to offer to me in their due season. 
3 And thou shalt say to them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer to the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt-offering. 
4 The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at evening. 
5 And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with a fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. 
6 It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD. 
7 And the drink-offering of it shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured to the LORD for a drink-offering. 
8 And the other lamb shalt thou offer at evening; as the meat-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering of it, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD. 
9 And on the sabbath-day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, and its drink-offering. 
10 This is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering. 
11 And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot; 
12 And three tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth-parts of flour for a meat-offering, mingled with oil, for one ram; 
13 And a several tenth-part of flour mingled with oil for a meat-offering to one lamb, for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD. 
14 And their drink-offering shall be half a hin of wine to a bullock, and the third part of a hin to a ram, and a fourth part of a hin to a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year. 
15 And one kid of the goats for a sin-offering to the LORD shall be offered, besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering. 
16 And on the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD. 
17 And on the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. 
18 On the first day shall be a holy convocation; in it ye shall do no manner of servile work. 
19 But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt-offering to the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be to you without blemish: 
20 And their meat-offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth-parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth-parts for a ram; 
21 A several tenth-part shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 
22 And one goat for a sin-offering, to make an atonement for you. 
23 Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering. 
24 After this manner ye shall offer daily throughout the seven days, the food of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor to the LORD: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and his drink-offering. 
25 And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work. 
26 Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye bring a new meat-offering to the LORD, after your weeks are ended, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: 
27 But ye shall offer the burnt-offering for a sweet savor to the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year; 
28 And their meat-offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth-parts to one bullock, two tenth-parts to one ram, 
29 A several tenth part to one lamb, throughout the seven lambs; 
30 And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you. 
31 Ye shall offer them besides the continual burnt-offering and his meat-offering (they shall be to you without blemish) and their drink-offerings. 
