1 And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD had given him rest around from all his enemies; 
2 That the king said to Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. 
3 And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart: for the LORD is with thee. 
4 And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying, 
5 Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith the LORD, Wilt thou build me a house for me to dwell in? 
6 Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent, and in a tabernacle. 
7 In all the places in which I have walked with all the children of Israel have I spoken a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why do ye not build me a house of cedar? 
8 Now therefore so shalt thou say to my servant David, thus saith the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheep-cote, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel: 
9 And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thy enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like to the name of the great men that are in the earth. 
10 Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as formerly. 
11 And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thy enemies. Also the LORD telleth thee that he will make thee a house. 
12 And when thy days shall be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. 
13 He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 
14 I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he shall commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men: 
15 But my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. 
16 And thy house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever. 
17 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak to David. 
18 Then king David went in, and sat before the LORD, and he said, Who am I, O Lord GOD? and what is my house, that thou hast brought me hitherto; 
19 And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD? 
20 And what can David say more to thee? for thou, Lord GOD, knowest thy servant. 
21 For thy word's sake, and according to thy own heart, hast thou done all these great things, to make thy servant know them. 
22 Wherefore thou art great, O LORD God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
23 And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for thy land, before thy people which thou redeemedst to thee from Egypt, from the nations and their gods? 
24 For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy people Israel to be a people to thee for ever: and thou, LORD, art become their God. 
25 And now, O LORD God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, establish it for ever, and do as thou hast said. 
26 And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel: and let the house of thy servant David be established before thee. 
27 For thou, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer to thee. 
28 And now, O Lord GOD, thou art that God, and thy words are true, and thou hast promised this goodness to thy servant: 
29 Therefore now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever. 
