1 Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whoever thou art, that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest, doest the same things. 
2 But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth, against them who commit such things. 
3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them who do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? 
4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness, and forbearance, and long-suffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? 
5 But after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up to thyself wrath against the day of wrath, and revelation of the righteous judgment of God; 
6 Who will render to every man according to his deeds: 
7 To them who by patient continuance in well-doing, seek for glory, and honor, and immortality; eternal life: 
8 But to them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness; indignation and wrath: 
9 Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile; 
10 But glory, honor, and peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile; 
11 For there is no respect of persons with God. 
12 For as many as have sinned without law, shall also perish without law: and as many as have sinned in the law, shall be judged by the law, 
13 (For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. 
14 For when the Gentiles, who have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law, are a law to themselves. 
15 Who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing testimony, and their thoughts the mean while accusing, or else excusing one another) 
16 In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel. 
17 Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, 
18 And knowest his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law, 
19 And art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them who are in darkness, 
20 An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, who hast the form of knowledge, and of the truth in the law: 
21 Thou therefore who teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? 
22 Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? 
23 Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonorest thou God? 
24 For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles, through you, as it is written. 
25 For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keepest the law; but if thou art a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. 
26 Therefore, if the uncircumcision keepeth the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? 
27 And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfilleth the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law? 
28 For he is not a Jew, who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: 
29 But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God. 
