1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 
2 By no means: how shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? 
3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death? 
4 Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 
5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 
6 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin may be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. 
7 For he that is dead is freed from sin. 
8 Now if we are dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him: 
9 Knowing that Christ, being raised from the dead, dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. 
10 For in that he died, he died to sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth to God. 
11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts of it. 
13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin: but yield yourselves to God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God: 
14 For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace. 
15 What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? By no means. 
16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants in obedience, his servants ye are whom ye obey; whether of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness? 
17 But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin; but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you. 
18 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. 
19 I speak after the manner of men, because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity, to (work) iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness, to (work) holiness. 
20 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. 
21 What fruit had ye then in those things of which ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death. 
22 But now being made free from sin, and having become servants to God, ye have your fruit to holiness, and the end everlasting life. 
23 For the wages of sin is death: but the gift of God is eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
