1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say to them, Ye shall be holy: for I the LORD your God am holy. 
3 Ye shall fear every man his mother and his father, and keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God. 
4 Turn ye not to idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am the LORD your God. 
5 And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings to the LORD, ye shall offer it at your own will. 
6 It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if aught shall remain until the third day, it shall be burnt in the fire. 
7 And if it shall be eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable; it shall not be accepted. 
8 Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people. 
9 And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest. 
10 And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and stranger: I am the LORD your God. 
11 Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another. 
12 And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD. 
13 Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor, neither rob him: the wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. 
14 Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling-block before the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the LORD. 
15 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment; thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty: but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor. 
16 Thou shalt not go up and down as a tale-bearer among thy people; neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor; I am the LORD. 
17 Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbor, and not suffer sin upon him. 
18 Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself; I am the LORD. 
19 Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle engender with a diverse kind: Thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed: neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woolen come upon thee. 
20 And whoever lieth carnally with a woman that is a bond-maid betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; she shall be scourged: they shall not be put to death, because she was not free. 
21 And he shall bring his trespass-offering to the LORD, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass-offering. 
22 And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before the LORD for his sin which he hath done; and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him. 
23 And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food; then ye shall count its fruit as uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised to you: it shall not be eaten of. 
24 But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy to praise the LORD with. 
25 And in the fifth year shall ye eat of its fruit, that it may yield to you its increase: I am the LORD your God. 
26 Ye shall not eat any thing with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantment, nor observe times. 
27 Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard. 
28 Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the LORD. 
29 Do not prostitute thy daughter to cause her to be a harlot: lest the land should fall to lewdness, and the land become full of wickedness. 
30 Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD. 
31 Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God. 
32 Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and fear thy God: I am the LORD. 
33 And if a stranger shall sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not oppress him. 
34 But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be to you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God. 
35 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in weight, in measure of length or of capacity. 
36 Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin shall ye have: I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. 
37 Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes, and all my judgments, and do them: I am the LORD. 
