1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
2 Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When any man hath a running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean. 
3 And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh shall run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness. 
4 Every bed on which he lieth that hath the issue, is unclean: and every thing on which he sitteth, shall be unclean. 
5 And whoever toucheth his bed, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
6 And he that sitteth on any thing on which he sat that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
7 And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
8 And if he that hath the issue shall spit upon him that is clean; then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
9 And whatever saddle he rideth upon that hath the issue, shall be unclean. 
10 And whoever toucheth any thing that was under him shall be unclean until the evening; and he that beareth any of those things, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
11 And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the issue (and hath not rinsed his hands in water) he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
12 And the vessel of earth that he toucheth who hath the issue, shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water. 
13 And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean. 
14 And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and come before the LORD to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them to the priest: 
15 And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue. 
16 And if any man's seed of copulation shall go from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
17 And every garment, and every skin on which is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the evening. 
18 The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
19 And if a woman shall have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whoever toucheth her shall be unclean until the evening. 
20 And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be unclean: every thing also that she sitteth upon shall be unclean. 
21 And whoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
22 And whoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
23 And if it be on her bed, or on any thing on which she sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the evening. 
24 And if any man shall lie with her at all, and her flowers be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days: and all the bed on which he lieth shall be unclean. 
25 And if a woman shall have an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it shall run beyond the time of her separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation: she shall be unclean. 
26 Every bed on which she lieth all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her separation: and whatever she sitteth upon shall be unclean as the uncleanness of her separation. 
27 And whoever toucheth those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. 
28 But if she shall be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean. 
29 And on the eighth day she shall take to her two turtles, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness. 
31 Thus shall ye separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness: that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is among them. 
32 This is the law of him that hath an issue, and of him whose seed goeth from him, and he is defiled therewith. 
33 And of her that is sick of her flowers, and of him that hath an issue, of the man and of the woman, and of him that lieth with her that is unclean. 
