1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, and that they profane not my holy name in those things which they hallow to me: I am the LORD. 
3 Say to them, Whoever he may be of all your seed among your generations, that approacheth the holy things, which the children of Israel hallow to the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from my presence: I am the LORD. 
4 Whatever man of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath a running issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he is clean. And whoever toucheth any thing that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goeth from him; 
5 Or whoever toucheth any creeping animal, by which he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatever uncleanness he hath: 
6 The soul which hath touched any such shall be unclean until evening, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless he shall wash his flesh with water. 
7 And when the sun is set, he shall be clean, and shall afterward eat of the holy things, because it is his food. 
8 That which dieth of itself, or is torn by beasts, he shall not eat to defile himself with it: I am the LORD. 
9 They shall therefore keep my ordinance, lest they bear sin for it, and die therefore, if they profane it: I the LORD do sanctify them. 
10 There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest, or a hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing. 
11 But if the priest shall buy any soul with his money, he shall eat of it, and he that is born in his house: they shall eat of his meat. 
12 If the priest's daughter also shall be married to a stranger, she may not eat of an offering of the holy things. 
13 But if the priest's daughter shall be a widow, or divorced, and shall have no child, and have returned to her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's meat; but there shall no stranger eat of it. 
14 And if a man shall eat of the holy thing unknowingly, then he shall put to it the fifth part, and shall give it to the priest, with the holy thing. 
15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel which they offer to the LORD; 
16 Or suffer them to bear the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their holy things: for I the LORD do sanctify them. 
17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
18 Speak to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all the children of Israel, and say to them, Whoever he may be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, that will offer his oblation for all his vows, and for all his free-will-offerings, which they will offer to the LORD for a burnt-offering: 
19 Ye shall offer at your own will a male without blemish of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats. 
20 But whatever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you. 
21 And whoever offereth a sacrifice of peace-offerings to the LORD to accomplish his vow, or a free-will-offering in beeves, or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted: there shall be in it no blemish. 
22 Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these to the LORD, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar to the LORD. 
23 Either a bullock, or a lamb that hath any thing superfluous or lacking in his parts, that mayest thou offer for a free-will-offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted. 
24 Ye shall not offer to the LORD that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut; neither shall ye make any offering thereof in your land. 
25 Neither from a stranger's hand shall ye offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, and blemishes are in them: they shall not be accepted for you. 
26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
27 When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for an offering made by fire to the LORD. 
28 And whether it is cow, or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her young both in one day. 
29 And when ye will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the LORD, offer it at your own will. 
30 On the same day it shall be eaten up, ye shall leave none of it until the morrow: I am the LORD. 
31 Therefore shall ye keep my commandments, and do them: I am the LORD. 
32 Neither shall ye profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am the LORD who hallow you, 
33 That brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD. 
