1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, 
2 When a man shall have in the skin of his flesh a rising, a scab, or bright spot, and it be in the skin of his flesh like the plague of leprosy; then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or to one of his sons the priests: 
3 And the priest shall look on the plague in the skin of the flesh: and when the hair in the plague is turned white, and the plague in sight is deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a plague of leprosy: and the priest shall look on him, and pronounce him unclean. 
4 If the bright spot is white in the skin of his flesh, and in sight, not deeper than the skin, and the hair of it not turned white; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague seven days: 
5 And the priest shall look on him the seventh day: and behold, if the plague in his sight is at a stay, and the plague spreadeth not in the skin; then the priest shall shut him up seven days more: 
6 And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day: and behold, if the plague is somewhat dark, and the plague spreadeth not in the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean: it is but a scab: and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean. 
7 But if the scab shall spread much in the skin, after he hath been seen by the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen by the priest again: 
8 And if the priest shall see, that behold, the scab spreadeth in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a leprosy. 
9 When the plague of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought to the priest: 
10 And the priest shall see him: and behold, if the rising is white in the skin, and it hath turned the hair white, and there is raw flesh in the rising; 
11 It is an old leprosy in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean, and shall not shut him up; for he is unclean. 
12 And if a leprosy shall break out in the skin, and the leprosy shall cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from his head even to his foot, wherever the priest looketh; 
13 Then the priest shall consider: and behold, if the leprosy hath covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague: it is all turned white: he is clean. 
14 But when raw flesh appeareth in him, he shall be unclean. 
15 And the priest shall see the raw flesh, and pronounce him to be unclean: for the raw flesh is unclean: it is a leprosy. 
16 Or if the raw flesh shall turn again, and be changed into white, he shall come to the priest; 
17 And the priest shall see him: and behold, if the plague is turned into white: then the priest shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague: he is clean. 
18 The flesh also, in which, even in the skin of it, was a boil, and is healed, 
19 And in the place of the boil there shall be a white rising, or a bright spot, white, and somewhat reddish, and it be showed to the priest; 
20 And if, when the priest seeth it, behold, it is in sight lower than the skin, and the hair of it is turned white; the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague of leprosy broken out of the boil. 
21 But if the priest shall look on it, and behold, there are no white hairs in it, and if it is not lower than the skin, but somewhat dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days: 
22 And if it hath spread much in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague. 
23 But if the bright spot shall stay in its place, and not spread, it is a burning boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean. 
24 Or if there is any flesh, in the skin of which there is a hot burning, and the live flesh that burneth hath a white bright spot, somewhat reddish or white; 
25 Then the priest shall look upon it: and behold, if the hair in the bright spot is turned white, and it is in sight deeper than the skin: it is a leprosy broken out of the burning: wherefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is the plague of leprosy. 
26 But if the priest shall look on it, and behold, there is no white hair in the bright spot, and it is no lower than the other skin, but is somewhat dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days: 
27 And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day: and if it is spread much in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is the plague of leprosy, 
28 And if the bright spot shall stay in its place, and not spread in the skin, but be somewhat dark; it is a rising of the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him clean: for it is an inflammation of the burning. 
29 If a man or woman shall have a plague upon the head or the beard; 
30 Then the priest shall see the plague: and behold, if it is in sight deeper than the skin, and there is in it a yellow thin hair; then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head or beard. 
31 And if the priest shall look on the plague of the scall, and behold, it is not in sight deeper than the skin, and no black hair in it; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague of the scall seven days: 
32 And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the plague: and behold, if the scall spreadeth not, and there is in it no yellow hair, and the scall is not in sight deeper than the skin; 
33 He shall be shaven, but the scall shall he not shave; and the priest shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more: 
34 And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the scall: and behold, if the scall is not spread in the skin, nor is in sight deeper than the skin; then the priest shall pronounce him clean: and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean. 
35 But if the scall shall spread much in the skin after his cleansing; 
36 Then the priest shall look on him: and behold, if the scall is spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek for yellow hair; he is unclean. 
37 But if the scall shall be in his sight at a stay, and there is black hair grown in it; the scall is healed, he is clean: and the priest shall pronounce him clean. 
38 If a man also or a woman shall have in the skin of their flesh bright spots, even white bright spots; 
39 Then the priest shall look: and behold, if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh are darkish white; it is a freckled spot that groweth in the skin; he is clean. 
40 And the man whose hair hath fallen off his head, he is bald; yet is he clean. 
41 And he that hath his hair fallen off from the part of his head towards his face, he is forehead-bald; yet is he clean. 
42 And if there is in the bald head, or bald forehead, a white reddish sore; it is a leprosy sprung up on his bald head, or his bald forehead. 
43 Then the priest shall look upon it: and behold, if the rising of the sore is white reddish on his bald head, or on his bald forehead, as the leprosy appeareth in the skin of the flesh; 
44 He is a leprous man, he is unclean: the priest shall pronounce him utterly unclean; his plague is in his head. 
45 And the leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall be rent, and his head bare, and he shall put a covering upon his upper lip, and shall cry, Unclean, unclean. 
46 All the days in which the plague shall be in him he shall be defiled; he is unclean: he shall dwell alone, without the camp shall his habitation be. 
47 The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether a woolen garment, or a linen garment; 
48 Whether in the warp, or woof, of linen, or of woolen: whether in a skin, or in any thing made of skin: 
49 And if the plague is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin: it is a plague of leprosy, and shall be shown to the priest: 
50 And the priest shall look upon the plague, and shut up that which hath the plague seven days: 
51 And he shall look on the plague on the seventh day: if the plague is spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in a skin, or in any work that is made of skin: the plague is a fretting leprosy; it is unclean. 
52 He shall therefore burn that garment, whether warp or woof, in woolen or in linen, or any thing of skin, in which the plague is: for it is a fretting leprosy; it shall be burnt in the fire. 
53 And if the priest shall look, and behold, the plague is not spread in the garment, either in the warp or in the woof, or in any thing of skin; 
54 Then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which the plague is, and he shall shut it up seven days more: 
55 And the priest shall look on the plague after it is washed: and behold, if the plague hath not changed its color, and the plague hath not spread; it is unclean; thou shalt burn it in the fire; it is fret inward, whether it is bare within or without. 
56 And if the priest shall look, and behold, the plague is somewhat dark after the washing of it; then he shall rend it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof: 
57 And if it shall appear still in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin; it is a spreading plague: thou shalt burn that in which the plague is, with fire. 
58 And the garment, either warp, or woof, or whatever thing of skin it is, which thou shalt wash, if the plague hath departed from them, then it shall be washed the second time, and shall be clean. 
59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woolen or linen, either in the warp or woof, or any thing of skins, to pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean. 
