1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 If a soul shall sin, and commit a trespass against the LORD, and lie to his neighbor, in that which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbor; 
3 Or hath found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein: 
4 Then it shall be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took by force, or the thing which he obtained by deceit, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing which he found, 
5 Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add to it the fifth part more, and give it to him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass-offering. 
6 And he shall bring his trespass-offering to the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass-offering, to the priest: 
7 And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of all that he hath done in trespassing therein. 
8 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
9 Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt-offering: It is the burnt-offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it. 
10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt-offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar. 
11 And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp to a clean place. 
12 And the fire upon the altar shall be burning on it; it shall not be extinguished: and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt-offering in order upon it; and he shall burn on it the fat of the peace-offerings. 
13 The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go out. 
14 And this is the law of the meat-offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar. 
15 And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat-offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meat-offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, even the memorial of it, to the LORD. 
16 And the remainder of it shall Aaron and his sons eat: with unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it. 
17 It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it to them for their portion of my offerings made by fire; It is most holy, as is the sin-offering, and as the trespass-offering. 
18 All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy. 
19 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
20 This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to the LORD in the day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat-offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, and half of it at night. 
21 In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baked, thou shalt bring it in: and the baked pieces of the meat-offering shalt thou offer for a sweet savor to the LORD. 
22 And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it: it is a statute for ever to the LORD; it shall be wholly burnt. 
23 For every meat-offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten. 
24 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, 
25 Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin-offering: In the place where the burnt-offering is killed shall the sin-offering be killed before the LORD: it is most holy. 
26 The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
27 Whatever shall touch the flesh of it shall be holy: and when there is sprinkled of its blood upon any garment, thou shalt wash that on which it was sprinkled in the holy place. 
28 But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken: and if it shall be boiled in a brazen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed in water. 
29 All the males among the priests shall eat of it: it is most holy. 
30 And no sin-offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to make reconciliation in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire. 
