1 Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellow-laborer, 
2 And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in thy house: 
3 Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
4 I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, 
5 Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus, and towards all saints; 
6 That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. 
7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. 
8 Wherefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient. 
9 Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. 
10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds: 
11 Who in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me: 
12 Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, my own bowels: 
13 Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered to me in the bonds of the gospel: 
14 But without thy mind I would do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly. 
15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldst receive him for ever; 
16 Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more to thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? 
17 If thou accountest me therefore a partner, receive him as myself. 
18 If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee aught, put that on my account; 
19 I Paul have written it with my own hand, I will repay it: although I do not say to thee that thou owest to me even thy own self besides. 
20 Yes, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord. 
21 Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote to thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say. 
22 But at the same time prepare me also a lodging; for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given to you. 
23 There salute thee Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus; 
24 Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellow-laborers. 
25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
