1 I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 
2 Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away; and every branch that beareth fruit, he cleaneth it, that it my bring forth more fruit. 
3 Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken to you. 
4 Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine: no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 
5 I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing. 
6 If a man abideth not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered: and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. 
7 If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye may ask what ye will, and it shall be done to you. 
8 In this is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. 
9 As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love. 
10 If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. 
11 These things have I spoken to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full. 
12 This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. 
13 Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 
14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatever I command you. 
15 Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you. 
16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 
17 These things I command you, that ye love one another. 
18 If the world hateth you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. 
19 If ye were of the world, the world would love its own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 
20 Remember the word that I said to you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you: if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. 
21 But all these things will they do to you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. 
22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloke for their sin. 
23 He that hateth me, hateth my Father also. 
24 If I had not done among them the works which no other man hath done, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen, and hated both me and my Father. 
25 But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause. 
26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send to you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, who proceedeth from the Father, he will testify concerning me. 
27 And ye also shall bear testimony, because ye have been with me from the beginning. 
