1 After this there was a feast of the Jews: and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
2 Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue, Bethesda, having five porches. 
3 In these lay a great multitude of impotent persons, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. 
4 For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and agitated the water: whoever then first after the stirring of the water stepped in, was cured of whatever disease he had. 
5 And a certain man was there, who had an infirmity thirty and eight years. 
6 When Jesus saw him lying, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith to him, Wilt thou be healed? 
7 The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is agitated, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. 
8 Jesus saith to him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. 
9 And immediately the man was healed, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath. 
10 The Jews therefore said to him that was cured, it is the sabbath; it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. 
11 He answered them, He that healed me, the same said to me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 
12 Then they asked him, What man is that who said to thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 
13 And he that was healed knew not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place. 
14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said to him, Behold, thou art cured: sin no more, lest a worse thing come to thee. 
15 The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him. 
16 And therefore the Jews persecuted Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath. 
17 But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 
18 Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God. 
19 Then answered Jesus, and said to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, The Son can do nothing by himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for whatever things he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. 
20 For the Father loveth the Son, and showeth him all things that himself doeth: and he will show him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 
21 For as the Father raiseth the dead, and reviveth them; even so the Son reviveth whom he will. 
22 For the Father judgeth no man; but hath committed all judgment to the Son: 
23 That all men should honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son, honoreth not the Father who hath sent him. 
24 Verily, verily, I say to you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but hath passed from death to life. 
25 Verily, verily, I say to you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live. 
26 For as the Father hath life in himself, so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself; 
27 And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man. 
28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, 
29 And shall come forth; they that have done good to the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, to the resurrection of damnation. 
30 I can of my own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father who hath sent me. 
31 If I testify concerning myself, my testimony is not true. 
32 There is another that testifieth concerning me, and I know that the testimony which he beareth concerning me is true. 
33 Ye sent to John, and he testified to the truth. 
34 But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye may be saved. 
35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. 
36 But I have greater testimony than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear testimony concerning me, that the Father hath sent me. 
37 And the Father himself who hath sent me, hath borne testimony concerning me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. 
38 And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not. 
39 Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me. 
40 And ye will not come to me, that ye may have life. 
41 I receive not honor from men. 
42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. 
43 I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. 
44 How can ye believe, who receive honor one from another, and seek not the honor that cometh from God only? 
45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. 
46 For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote concerning me. 
47 But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words? 
