1 Then Agrippa said to Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself: 
2 I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee, concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews: 
3 Especially, because I know thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. 
4 My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among my own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews, 
5 Who knew me from the beginning, (if they would testify) that after the strictest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee. 
6 And now I stand, and am judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers: 
7 To which promise our twelve tribes, assiduously serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews. 
8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead? 
9 I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 
10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. 
11 And I punished them often in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. 
12 Upon which as I went to Damascus, with authority and commission from the chief priests, 
13 At mid-day, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, surpassing the brightness of the sun, shining around me, and them who journeyed with me. 
14 And when we had all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking to me, and saying in the Hebrew language, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the goads. 
15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. 
16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared to thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of the things which thou hast seen, and of the things in which I will appear to thee; 
17 Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom now I send thee, 
18 To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them who are sanctified by faith that is in me. 
19 Upon which O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision. 
20 But showed first to them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for repentance. 
21 For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me. 
22 Having therefore obtained help from God, I continue to this day, testifying both to small and great, saying no other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come: 
23 That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should show light to the people, and to the Gentiles. 
24 And as he was thus speaking for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee insane. 
25 But he said, I am not insane, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. 
26 For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him; for this thing was not done in a corner. 
27 King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. 
28 Then Agrippa said to Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. 
29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds. 
30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them: 
31 And when they had gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death, or of bonds. 
32 Then said Agrippa to Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed to Cesar. 
