1 And I turned, and lifted up my eyes, and looked, and behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass. 
2 In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses; 
3 And in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grizzled and bay horses. 
4 Then I answered and said to the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord? 
5 And the angel answered and said to me, These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth. 
6 The black horses which are therein go forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the grizzled go forth towards the south country. 
7 And the bay went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to and fro through the earth: and he said, Go hence, walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth. 
8 Then he cried upon me, and spoke to me, saying, Behold, these that go towards the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country. 
9 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 
10 Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, who are come from Babylon, and come thou the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah; 
11 Then take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest. 
12 And speak to him, saying, Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH; and he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD; 
13 Even he shall build the temple of the LORD; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne: and he shall be a priest upon his throne: and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. 
14 And the crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of the LORD. 
15 And they that are far off shall come and build in the temple of the LORD, and ye shall know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me to you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God. 
